readme.md, before:

# Vai Kai Website

Static, responsive website for Vai Kai UG.

## Build

### Install

First, pull the git repository locally, then open a terminal and cd to the repository's local folder to run the following commands:

1. Make sure nodeJS > 4 is installed

First, verify the current node version installed with `node --v`. If the version is below 4.0, update node using one of the following methods:

- Via the installer provided on [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

- Via npm directly:

[more info](http://theholmesoffice.com/node-js-fundamentals-how-to-upgrade-the-node-js-version/)

    sudo npm cache clean -f
    sudo npm install -g n
    sudo n stable 

- Via Node Version Manager:

Find instructions [here](https://davidwalsh.name/nvm)

2. Install build/frontend dependencies

Global dependencies

    sudo npm install -g gulp
    sudo npm install -g bower

Project dependencies (reads the `package.json` and `bower.json` files to install all needed packages)

    npm install
    bower install

3. Setup local url

open the file 'gulp/config.js' and, in the value for `paths.public` (line 11), replace 'http://vaikai.local' with a local url that points to the project's 'www' folder (e.g. `http://localhost/vaikai/www`).

### Build project

Open a terminal and cd to the project's folder to run one of the following commands:

    gulp build
    gulp build --dev
    gulp build --dev --watch

Running gulp build without any arguments will build the static website inside the 'www' folder, after bundling and minifying all assets. Caution: this will use `http://vaikai.com` for urls so it should only be used for pushing the website online – the built website won't work locally.

If you use the `--dev` argument, it will build the static website inside the 'www' folder without minifying assets and using your local url (e.g. `http://localhost/vaikai/www`). Open a browser and go to that url to see the result.

Additionally, you can use the `--watch` flag when developing. This will update js and css assets whenever you edit the source files in the `src` folder.

**Note**: for now `--watch` doesn't look for changes in the `src/content`. This will be fixed soon but in the mean time you need to re-run `gulp build --dev --watch` whenever you change the content files.

**Note**: for now there is a bug with `--watch` that prevents images resized inside of the templates to be copied inside the 'www' folder. This means these images won't load inside the browser. This will be fixed soon but in the meantime you can run `gulp assets --dev` and then re-run `gulp build --dev --watch` to work around the issue.

### Update production website

1. Open an FTP client and connect to `vaikai.com` (ask Matas for connection details).

2. Build the project for production by running `gulp clean`  and then `gulp build` (see above). Running `gulp clean` first will empty the 'www' folder so we are sure only the necessary files get uploaded to the server.

3. Create a folder called '_new' on the server and push the local 'www' inside it.

4. Create a folder called '_old' on the server and move all the files currently on the server's root inside it. **Caution: always leave the htaccess where it is**.

5. Move the files inside the '_new' folder to the server's root.

6. Go to `http://vaikai.com` to verify if everything worked - test thorougly! 

7. If something went wrong, move the files from the server's root back into '_new' and put the files in '_old' back on the root. If the update went fine, remove the '_new' and '_old' folders from the server.

## Updating content

The website's content is encoded in yaml files inside the 'src/content' folder
You can edit the content inside all the yaml files you find there and it will be shipped in the next build.

Each file in that folder represent's a page on the website – it corresponds to a template file with the same name inside the 'src/tempaltes/pages' folder.

Each file in the sub-folders represent a section of the page with the same name as the sub-folder's name. For example 'src/content/company/intro' is a section of the 'company' page.

You can safely add html to any yaml value. If doing so throws an error when building the website, make sure you use a "pipe" sign in front of the yaml value, and put your html on a new line like so:

    description: |
        <p>Morbi leo risus, porta ac consectetur ac,<br />vestibulum at eros. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et <a href="http://example.com/some-page/">magnis dis parturient</a>, montes nascetur ridiculus mus.</p>
        <p>Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus. Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis.</p>

**Caution: Don't change the structure of the yaml files as it will break the website**

## Front-end

All front-end files are located in the 'src/assets' and 'src/templates' folders

### Stylesheets

Stylesheets are written in [Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) and are compiled with compass. They are organised using an architecture inspired by [SMACSS](https://smacss.com/) and the [BEM methodology](https://en.bem.info/).

*More infos soon*

### Javascripts

Javascript files are written in javascript (no pre-compiler), and are bundled together using [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/). The javascript code is organised into modules which use the commonJS(http://wiki.commonjs.org/wiki/CommonJS) spec.

Only the files directly inside the 'src/assets/scripts' folder (not files in sub-folders) can be loaded on the front-end. They typically correspond to a page from the website and ideally they do nothing else but require the modules they use from the sub-folders. For example:

'src/assets/scripts/toys.js'

    require('modules/menu');
    require('widgets/carousel');

**Note**: javascript files inside the 'src/assets/scripts/vendor' folder are not bundled with the other files and they are loaded separately in the templates.

**Note**: jQuery and Modernizr are automatically made available inside all javascript files accross the project. You'll never have to write `require('jquery');` or `require('modernizr);` but you can always do something like `$('.my-classname)` or `Modernizr.prefixed('transition')`.

*More infos soon*

### Templates

Templates are written with the [Nunjucks](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/templating.html) templating engine.

Inside the templates, a few global variables are available:

- `app`: contains paths and configuration settings
- `data`: corresponds to the 'src/data.json' file
- `page`: contains the page's content. Corresponds to the page's yaml file with the added `sections` key which is an array of objects.

**Note** Each object inside `page.sections` corresponds to a yaml file inside the 'src/content/pages/{page-name}' folder. The order is defined by the `section_order` key in the page's own yaml file.

You can always inspect a given variable with the `log` filter which will output the variable's value in the terminal. For example:

    {{ app|log }}

*more infos soon*

## Credits

Client: [Vai Kai UG](http://vaikai.com)
Project Management: [Katleen Roggeman](katleen@vaikai.co)
Design: [Donatas Vainilaitis](hello@lazyfuture.com)
Development: [Yoannis Jamar](yoannis.j@gmail.com)

Commit message:

fixed readme and added instructions for compass
Signed-off-by: Yoannis Jamar <yoannis.j@gmail.com>

readme.md, after:

# Vai Kai Website

Static, responsive website for Vai Kai UG.

## Build

### Install

First, pull the git repository locally, then open a terminal and cd to the repository's local folder to run the following commands:

1. Make sure nodeJS > 4 is installed

    First, verify the current node version installed with `node -v`. If the version is below 4.0, update node using one of the following methods:

    + Via the installer provided on [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

    + Via npm directly:

        [more info](http://theholmesoffice.com/node-js-fundamentals-how-to-upgrade-the-node-js-version/)

            sudo npm cache clean -f
            sudo npm install -g n
            sudo n stable 

    + Via Node Version Manager:

        Find instructions [here](https://davidwalsh.name/nvm)

2. Install build/frontend dependencies

    Global dependencies

        sudo npm install -g gulp
        sudo npm install -g bower

    Rubygems (temporary, untill we switch back to node-sass)

        sudo gem install -n /usr/local/bin compass
        sudo gem install -n /usr/local/bin compass-import-once
        sudo gem install -n /usr/local/bin sass-json-vars
        sudo gem install -n /usr/local/bin sass-aleksi
        sudo gem install -n /usr/local/bin shift

    **Note**: If you are using OSX El Capitan, you migth have to [fix Ruby and Compass](http://andyy.me/fixing-compass-after-update-to-el-capitan-osx-10-11/) first.

    Project dependencies (reads the `package.json` and `bower.json` files to install all needed packages)

        npm install
        bower install

3. Setup local url

    open the file 'gulp/config.js' and, in the value for `paths.public` (line 11), replace 'http://vaikai.local' with a local url that points to the project's 'www' folder (e.g. `http://localhost/vaikai/www`).

### Build project

Open a terminal and cd to the project's folder to run one of the following commands:

    gulp build
    gulp build --dev
    gulp build --dev --watch

Running gulp build without any arguments will build the static website inside the 'www' folder, after bundling and minifying all assets. Caution: this will use `http://vaikai.com` for urls so it should only be used for pushing the website online – the built website won't work locally.

If you use the `--dev` argument, it will build the static website inside the 'www' folder without minifying assets and using your local url (e.g. `http://localhost/vaikai/www`). Open a browser and go to that url to see the result.

Additionally, you can use the `--watch` flag when developing. This will update js and css assets whenever you edit the source files in the `src` folder.

**Note**: for now `--watch` doesn't look for changes in the `src/content` folder. This will be fixed soon but in the mean time you need to re-run `gulp build --dev --watch` whenever you change the content files.

**Note**: for now there is a bug with `--watch` that prevents images resized  in the templates to be copied to the 'www' folder. This means they won't load in the browser correctly. This will be fixed soon but in the meantime you can run `gulp assets --dev` and then re-run `gulp build --dev --watch` to work around the issue.

### Update production website

1. Open an FTP client and connect to `vaikai.com` (ask Matas for connection details).

2. Build the project for production by running `gulp clean`  and then `gulp build` (see above). Running `gulp clean` first will empty the 'www' folder so we are sure only the necessary files get uploaded to the server.

3. Create a folder called '_new' on the server and push the local 'www' inside it.

4. Create a folder called '_old' on the server and move all the files currently on the server's root inside it. **Caution: always leave the htaccess where it is**.

5. Move the files inside the '_new' folder to the server's root.

6. Go to `http://vaikai.com` to verify if everything worked - test thorougly! 

7. If something went wrong, move the files from the server's root back into '_new' and put the files in '_old' back on the root. If the update went fine, remove the '_new' and '_old' folders from the server.

## Updating content

The website's content is encoded in yaml files inside the 'src/content' folder
You can edit the content inside all the yaml files you find there and it will be shipped in the next build.

Each file in that folder represent's a page on the website – it corresponds to a template file with the same name inside the 'src/tempaltes/pages' folder.

Each file in the sub-folders represent a section of the page with the same name as the sub-folder's name. For example 'src/content/company/intro' is a section of the 'company' page.

You can safely add html to any yaml value. If doing so throws an error when building the website, make sure you use a "pipe" sign in front of the yaml value, and put your html on a new line like so:

    description: |
        <p>Morbi leo risus, porta ac consectetur ac,<br />vestibulum at eros. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et <a href="http://example.com/some-page/">magnis dis parturient</a>, montes nascetur ridiculus mus.</p>
        <p>Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus. Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis.</p>

**Caution: Don't change the structure of the yaml files as it will break the website**

## Front-end

All front-end files are located in the 'src/assets' and 'src/templates' folders

### Stylesheets

Stylesheets are written in [Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) and are compiled with compass. They are organised using an architecture inspired by [SMACSS](https://smacss.com/) and the [BEM methodology](https://en.bem.info/).

*More infos soon*

### Javascripts

Javascript files are written in javascript (no pre-compiler), and are bundled together using [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/). The javascript code is organised into modules which use the commonJS(http://wiki.commonjs.org/wiki/CommonJS) spec.

Only the files directly inside the 'src/assets/scripts' folder (not files in sub-folders) can be loaded on the front-end. They typically correspond to a page from the website and ideally they do nothing else but require the modules they use from the sub-folders. For example:

'src/assets/scripts/toys.js'

    require('modules/menu');
    require('widgets/carousel');

**Note**: javascript files inside the 'src/assets/scripts/vendor' folder are not bundled with the other files and they are loaded separately in the templates.

**Note**: jQuery and Modernizr are automatically made available inside all javascript files accross the project. You'll never have to write `require('jquery');` or `require('modernizr);` but you can always do something like `$('.my-classname)` or `Modernizr.prefixed('transition')`.

*More infos soon*

### Templates

Templates are written with the [Nunjucks](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/templating.html) templating engine.

Inside the templates, a few global variables are available:

- `app`: contains paths and configuration settings
- `data`: corresponds to the 'src/data.json' file
- `page`: contains the page's content. Corresponds to the page's yaml file with the added `sections` key which is an array of objects.

**Note** Each object inside `page.sections` corresponds to a yaml file inside the 'src/content/pages/{page-name}' folder. The order is defined by the `section_order` key in the page's own yaml file.

You can always inspect a given variable with the `log` filter which will output the variable's value in the terminal. For example:

    {{ app|log }}

*more infos soon*

## Credits

Client: [Vai Kai UG](http://vaikai.com)
Project Management: [Katleen Roggeman](katleen@vaikai.co)
Design: [Donatas Vainilaitis](hello@lazyfuture.com)
Development: [Yoannis Jamar](yoannis.j@gmail.com)
